TRACY L. RUSCH
TLRusch@mac.com
603-714-9337 
www.TriangleWriting.com
www.LinkedIn.com/in/TracyRusch/

NOTE:  To facilitate automatic keyword search software, this resume is submitted with no formatting.  
For a formatted resume, please go to my website, www.TriangleWriting.com.

POSITION

Technical Writing, Technical Writer
Instructional Design, Instructional Designer
Curriculum Development, Curriculum Developer
Project Management, Project Manager
Math Teacher, Mathematics Teacher

10+ YEARS OF EXPERIENCE AS:
Technical writer within the roles of educator, writer, administrator, and project manager in academia;
Writer for audiences at all levels of knowledge and sophistication;
Professor, Teacher and Workshop/Seminar Presenter for audiences at all levels of knowledge and sophistication.

10+ YEARS DOING THE FOLLOWING:
Writing:  Communicating complex concepts in understandable, user-friendly written language; 
Presentations:  Communicating complex concepts in understandable, user-friendly oral presentations, courses, seminars, and workshops; 
Curriculum and Instructional Documents:  Develop, Create, Write, Implement;
On-Line Courses and Workshops:  Develop, Create, Write, Teach, Assess, Evaluate; 
Self-Guided Learning, Instruction, and Curriculum:  Design, Develop, Create, Write, Documentation.
Mathematics, Statistics

EMPLOYMENT

2018 to Present
Career Change to Technical Writing, Technical Writer, Instructional Design, Instructional Designer, Project Manager
Writer for Ask Wonder
Technical Writing Certificate

2015 to 2018
High School Math Teacher 
Contract & Long-Term Substitute for Derryfield School (Manchester NH), Pinkerton Academy (Derry NH), Block Island School (New Shoreham, RI)

2011 to 2015
Consultant & Project Manager University Accreditation, Wentworth Institute of Technology, Boston, MA
Consultant & Project Manager University Accreditation, Tufts University, Medford, MA

2006 to 2015
GentleMath Tutoring & Professional Development
Math Tutor K-16:  Private Students, Landmark College, Bedford, NH High School, Milford, NH High School
Math Teacher for Homebound Students, Tantasqua Regional High School, Sturbridge, MA
Math Interventionist Teacher for Public Schools, Portsmouth, NH

1997 to 2006
University Assistant Professor, Mathematics Education, Wright State University, Dayton, Ohio,1999-2006
University Assistant Professor, Mathematics Education, University of NH, Durham, Post-Doc, 1997-1999

TECHNOLOGY AND TOOLS

Mathematics, Statistics
All Microsoft Office Applications - Expert
Review Tracking, Equation Editor, Graphics Editor in Word
Slack, GitHub
HTML, XML, RTD, CSS, DITA, DocBook
Join.Me, GoToMeeting, Skype
Sphinx, ReadtheDocs
Madcap Flare, Camtasa, Adobe Suite

CERTIFICATIONS

Middlesex Technical Writing Certificate (completion May 2019);
Teaching Licenses for NH and MA:  All math content through advanced calculus and statistics;
Highly Qualified for Mathematics Teaching, New Hampshire and Massachusetts;
School District Leadership and Performance Assessment, Broad Institute & Harvard Graduate School of Education.

EDUCATION

	PhD	Mathematics Education, University of Texas, Austin, TX;
BA +9 Mathematics (course equivalent), University of Texas, Austin, TX;
MA 	Curriculum & Instruction (Math), California State University, Sacramento, CA;
BS 	Education (Math & Science), Boston University, Boston, MA;

ACHIEVEMENTS

Redesigned college mathematics curriculum to meet the needs of at risk students that resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of students who:

   *Passed the courses and mastered the math with confidence;
   *Were retained through graduation; and 
   *Pursued and completed majors in STEM fields.

Successfully drove over twenty large and complex projects to completion on time, on budget.  Projects included: 

   *A two-year, 200 human subject research study that resulted in important insights and program improvements; 
   *An 18-month accreditation project leading to a 10-year accreditation approval for over 100 degree programs at a major university; and
   *A six-month project to revise curriculum for multiple colleges and universities that led to improved math instruction.

Skillfully managed major change projects that resulted in a smooth transition to the desired outcomes with strong employee buy in.  Strategies included:

   *Thoughtful diplomacy to overcome initial resistance and in some cases outright hostility; 
   *Comfortable working relationships with all personnel from upper level management to support staff; 
   *Clear, precise oral and written communication; and 
   *Sufficiently advanced knowledge to work intelligently with a broad range of subject matter experts.

Leader in a movement to improve K-12 mathematics curriculum that included revising standards, presentations at national and international conferences, multiple publications, and creation of new undergraduate and graduate teacher education courses.

EXAMPLES

TUFTS UNIVERSITY

Independently initiated and managed a complex 18-month project culminating in the College of Arts & Sciences (A&S) assessment report that resulted in a ten-year accreditation approval.  

Overcame the faculty’s resistance, and in some cases outright hostility, toward the project by showing them how to make the required research projects both meaningful and manageable (change management). 

Provided ideas and guidance for each of the 129 degree program directors as they conducted the research, completed the documentation, and gathered the artifacts required for the program portfolio.  In some cases the guidance required friendly, but persistent, nudging.

Wrote concise, easily understood instructional documents.

Designed efficient report documents that were quick and easy for faculty to complete and accreditation personnel to review.

Created and managed a user-friendly, easy-to-navigate project website that housed over 30,000 documents and artifacts.  

Created and maintained project tracking strategies that provided an accurate status update for each of the 129 projects in real time.

Wrote the final 40-page College of Arts & Sciences assessment report. 

WENTWORTH INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY:  

Saved WIT from losing its accreditation status. This threat was the result of the institution’s failure to meet requirements and deadlines.

Worked directly with the accreditation agencies to identify acceptable remedial actions, and, working with faculty and administration, met those requirements within the negotiated timeframe.

To prevent future threats to accreditation, developed a 5-year plan of action that included a portfolio of organized procedures, timelines, and deliverables for each of the 21 accrediting agencies.

WRIGHT STATE UNIVERSITY:  

Managed multiple responsibilities and projects simultaneously, including curriculum development, teaching, formal research, grant proposals, writing for publication, and community service.

As a board member for a failing, high-poverty, urban school district, provided thoughtful leadership and innovative academic policies that resulted in dramatic learning gains.  

Provided additional leadership in the initiation and completion of a $630,000,000 building project that replaced all 34 of the district’s crumbling school buildings.
